# Reeves Family Chores
#### Video Demo:
#### Descripton:
This is a simple React application that users can log into and keep track of chores do to around the house. When the app first starts it asks users to login with a username and password. Once you login (with one of the users provided in DB.js) you are brought to the user's profile. If the user has any chores for them to do, they will pop up on the profile page. Otherwise, the user music go to the Chores To-Do tab and add chores for them to do. If the user is an Admin user, then they have access to the Admin portal where they can check on chores that have been marked as "completed" and reset them back to  "not completed" once the chore needs to be done again.

DB.js is a file that acts as a database for the application. This file exports the variables users and chores. Both of the variables are arrays that contain objects. Users contains an object for each individual user that holds a user's name, password, role (Parent or Child), whether or not they are Admin, and their id. Chores contains an object for each chore that holds a chore's id, the user id associated with that chore (if assigned to a specific user), a name, image, description, and where or not the chore is completed. 

Index.js is where we creat a root using ReactDOM. This root is created by going into the index.html file in the public folder and grabbing the div with an id of "root". Then index.js reners App.js inside that div.

App.jsx is where each of our components are rendered. The first thing that happens in the App.js function is the declaration of our state variables, and setting the state for each of those variables. Then we use 2 useEffects. The first checks if there is a current user saved in our local storage. If there is, then we set our IsLoggedIn stateto that specific user. The second does pretty much the same, excpet with the choresList. The next thing is our handleLogout helper function. This function runs when you click any of the "Log out" buttons throughout the app. All this function does is set the user, password, and isLoggedIn state variables back to their intial state and removes the user from local storage. Next is where the App component establishes routes using BrowserRouter from "react-router-dom" and renders the other components in the application. You will see the Taskbar component is located outsie where we actually establish the routes for Login, Profile, Chores, and Admin. This is because we want the Taskbar to always be visible, while the other components should only be visible when visiting the specific route associated with them.

Taskbar.jsx is where the taskbar is rendered and is displayed all the time, no matter which route you are on. I used a React bootstrap to create this taskbar. It contains 3 links that link to either the login page, profile page, or chores to-do page. 

Login.jsx is the component that renders our login page. The first thing in our Login component are the handleUser, handlePassword, and handleSubmit functions that work with our login form. handleUser grabs the value from the username input anytime it changes, and sets our user state to that value. handlePassword does the same, but for the passowrd input and password state. handleClick runs anytime the Login button is clicked. First, it filters through our users database and returns the user whose username is equal to the one put in the username input, and whose password is equal to the one put in the password input. If the username or password does not match any in the users database, then an error message is returned. If a user is matched, then is sets the isLoggedIn state to that user, stores that user in localStorage, and navigates to that user's profile page. Below is handleClick function is where our actual html for Login.jsx is rendered.  

Profile.jsx is where a logged in user can see the chores that are assigned to them. If the user is an admin, they can also access the Admin portal from here. First, we filter through our chores database, and return the chores with a completed status of "In Progress" and with a user_id equal to our current users ID. Then the function createUserCard is used to create individual cards for each chore with a status of "In Progress" using the ProfileChores component. Next is where the html for the profile is rendered. If a user is logged in the page will display the chores with the status of "In Progress" that are assigned to that user. Otherwise, a message is displayed that tells the user to login to view a specific profile and a button that reroutes to the login page. 

ProfileChores.jsx is where the individual chore cards for the profile page are rendered. Each card is it's own form. When the form is submitted, that chore's completed status is changed to "Completed", the choreList state variable is updated, and the choreList saved in localstorage is updated.

Chores.jsx displays all the chores that have a completed status of "Not Completed". It does this by filtering through the chores database as grabbing all the chores with a completed status of "Not Complted". Then, using the createCard function, it creates individual form cards for each chore returned from the filter function using the Chore component. If a user is logged in, these cards will be displayed on the page. If no user is logged in, a message appears asking the user to login and a button that redirects to the login page is displayed.

Chore.jsx is where the individual chore cards for Chores.jsx are rendered. Each card is it's own form, and when the form is submitted it sets that chore's completed status to "In Progress", the chore's user_id to the current logged in user's ID, updates the choreList state variable, and updates the choreList saved in localstorage.

Admin.jsx is where the Admin component is rendered. First it filters through the chores database and returns any chore with the completed status of "Completed". Then the creatAdminCard function creates indiviual form cards for the chores that are returned from the filter function. If an admin user is logged in, then these form cards are displayed on the page. If no user or a non-admin user is logged in, then a message displays telling the user to login as an admin user and a button that reroutes to the login page.

AdminCard.jsx is where the individual form cards for the Admin page are rendered. When a form is submitted, it changes that specific chores completed status to "Not Completed", the chore's user_id back to an empty string, updates the choreList state variable, and the choreList saved in localstorage.